.\" x(1) man page
.TH X 1 "2026-03-25" "x 6.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
x \- command\-line client for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B x
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B x
is a command\-line interface for the X API.
.PP
Credentials are stored in
.I ~/.xrc
(YAML).
If
.I ~/.xrc
does not exist,
.I ~/.trc
is used as a fallback and migrated on write.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-color " " \fIMODE\fR
Colorize output.
.I MODE
is one of
.BR icon ", " auto ", or " never .
Default:
.BR auto .
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-profile " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to the profile (rc) file.
Default:
.IR ~/.xrc .
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Account Management
.TP
.B accounts
List configured accounts.
.TP
.B authorize \fR[\fICONSUMER_KEY CONSUMER_SECRET\fR]
Authorize an application via OAuth.
Use
.B \-d
/
.B \-\-display\-uri
to print the authorization URL instead of opening a browser.
.TP
.B set active \fR[\fIUSERNAME\fR]
Set the active account.
Aliases:
.BR "set account" ", " "set default" .
.TP
.B delete account \fR[\fIUSERNAME\fR]
Remove an account from the profile file.
.TP
.B whoami
Show profile information for the authenticated user.
.SS Tweets
.TP
.B timeline \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
Show the 20 most recent Tweets posted by a user.
Alias:
.BR tl .
.TP
.B mentions
Show the 20 most recent Tweets mentioning you.
Alias:
.BR replies .
.TP
.B retweets \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
Show the 20 most recent Retweets by a user.
Alias:
.BR rts .
.TP
.B retweets_of_me
Show the 20 most recent Tweets of the authenticated user
that have been retweeted by others.
Alias:
.BR retweetsofme .
.TP
.B favorites \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
Show the 20 most recent favorited Tweets.
Aliases:
.BR faves ", " favourites .
.TP
.B status \fITWEET_ID\fR
Retrieve detailed information about a Tweet.
.TP
.B update \fIMESSAGE\fR
Post a Tweet.
Aliases:
.BR post ", " tweet .
Use
.B \-l
/
.B \-\-location
to attach a location and
.B \-f
/
.B \-\-file
to attach media.
.TP
.B reply \fITWEET_ID MESSAGE\fR
Post a reply directed at another person.
.TP
.B retweet \fITWEET_ID...\fR
Retweet one or more Tweets.
Alias:
.BR rt .
.TP
.B favorite \fITWEET_ID...\fR
Mark Tweets as favorites.
Aliases:
.BR fave ", " favourite .
.TP
.B reach \fITWEET_ID\fR
Show the maximum number of people who may have seen a Tweet.
.SS Direct Messages
.TP
.B dm \fIUSER MESSAGE\fR
Send a Direct Message.
Aliases:
.BR d ", " m .
.TP
.B direct_messages
Show the 20 most recent Direct Messages received.
Aliases:
.BR directmessages ", " dms .
.TP
.B direct_messages_sent
Show the 20 most recent Direct Messages sent.
Aliases:
.BR directmessagessent ", " sent_messages ", " sentmessages ", " sms .
.SS Users
.TP
.B whois \fIUSER\fR
Retrieve profile information for a user.
Alias:
.BR user .
.TP
.B users \fIUSER...\fR
Return information for one or more users.
Alias:
.BR stats .
.TP
.B follow \fIUSER...\fR
Follow one or more users.
.TP
.B unfollow \fIUSER...\fR
Unfollow one or more users.
.TP
.B block \fIUSER...\fR
Block one or more users.
.TP
.B mute \fIUSER...\fR
Mute one or more users.
.TP
.B report_spam \fIUSER...\fR
Report one or more users for spam.
Aliases:
.BR report ", " reportspam ", " spam .
.TP
.B followings \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
List the people you follow.
.TP
.B followers \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
List the people who follow you.
.TP
.B friends
List people who you follow and who follow you back.
.TP
.B leaders
List people who you follow but who don\(aqt follow you back.
.TP
.B groupies
List people who follow you but whom you don\(aqt follow back.
Alias:
.BR disciples .
.TP
.B blocks
List blocked users.
.TP
.B muted
List muted users.
Alias:
.BR mutes .
.TP
.B followings_following \fIUSER\fR
Show your friends who also follow the specified user.
Aliases:
.BR ff ", " followingsfollowing .
.TP
.B intersection \fIUSER USER\fR
Show the intersection of users followed by two users.
Alias:
.BR overlap .
.TP
.B does_follow \fIUSER USER\fR
Check whether one user follows another.
Aliases:
.BR df ", " doesfollow .
.TP
.B does_contain \fILIST USER\fR
Check whether a list contains a user.
Aliases:
.BR dc ", " doescontain .
.TP
.B open \fIUSER\fR
Open a user\(aqs profile in a web browser.
.SS Lists
.TP
.B lists \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
Show lists created by a user.
.TP
.B list add \fILIST USER...\fR
Add members to a list.
.TP
.B list create \fINAME\fR
Create a new list.
.TP
.B list information \fILIST\fR
Show detailed information about a list.
Alias:
.BR "list details" .
.TP
.B list members \fILIST\fR
Show members of a list.
.TP
.B list remove \fILIST USER...\fR
Remove members from a list.
.TP
.B list timeline \fILIST\fR
Show the tweet timeline for a list.
Alias:
.BR "list tl" .
.TP
.B delete list \fILIST\fR
Delete a list.
.SS Collections
.TP
.B collections \fR[\fIUSER\fR]
Show collections created by a user.
.TP
.B collection add \fICOLLECTION TWEET_ID...\fR
Add tweets to a collection.
.TP
.B collection create \fINAME\fR
Create a new collection.
.TP
.B collection entries \fICOLLECTION\fR
Show tweets in a collection.
.TP
.B collection information \fICOLLECTION\fR
Show detailed information about a collection.
Alias:
.BR "collection details" .
.TP
.B collection remove \fICOLLECTION TWEET_ID...\fR
Remove tweets from a collection.
.TP
.B collection update \fICOLLECTION\fR
Update a collection\(aqs metadata.
.TP
.B delete collection \fICOLLECTION\fR
Delete a collection.
.SS Search
.TP
.B search all \fIQUERY\fR
Search recent Tweets.
.TP
.B search favorites \fIQUERY\fR
Search your favorited Tweets.
Alias:
.BR "search faves" .
.TP
.B search list \fILIST QUERY\fR
Search Tweets on a list.
.TP
.B search mentions \fIQUERY\fR
Search Tweets mentioning you.
Alias:
.BR "search replies" .
.TP
.B search retweets \fIQUERY\fR
Search your Retweets.
Alias:
.BR "search rts" .
.TP
.B search timeline \fIQUERY\fR
Search Tweets in your timeline.
Alias:
.BR "search tl" .
.TP
.B search users \fIQUERY\fR
Search for users.
.SS Streaming
.TP
.B stream all
Stream a random sample of all Tweets.
.TP
.B stream list \fILIST\fR
Stream a timeline for list members.
.TP
.B stream search \fIKEYWORDS\fR
Stream Tweets matching keywords.
.TP
.B stream timeline
Stream your timeline.
.TP
.B stream users \fIUSER...\fR
Stream Tweets from or in reply to specified users.
.TP
.B stream matrix
You have to see it for yourself.
.SS Delete
.TP
.B delete status \fITWEET_ID...\fR
Delete Tweets.
Aliases:
.BR "delete post" ", " "delete tweet" ", " "delete update" .
.TP
.B delete dm
Delete the last Direct Message sent.
Aliases:
.BR "delete d" ", " "delete m" .
.TP
.B delete favorite \fITWEET_ID...\fR
Remove favorites.
Aliases:
.BR "delete fave" ", " "delete favourite" .
.TP
.B delete block \fIUSER...\fR
Unblock users.
.TP
.B delete mute \fIUSER...\fR
Unmute users.
.SS Profile Settings
.TP
.B set bio \fITEXT\fR
Edit your bio.
.TP
.B set language \fILANG\fR
Set your notification language.
.TP
.B set location \fITEXT\fR
Update your profile location.
.TP
.B set name \fINAME\fR
Set your display name.
.TP
.B set profile_background_image \fIFILE\fR
Set your profile background image.
Aliases:
.BR "set background" ", " "set background_image" .
.TP
.B set profile_image \fIFILE\fR
Set your profile image.
Aliases:
.BR "set avatar" ", " "set image" .
.TP
.B set profile_link_color \fICOLOR\fR
Set the link color on your profile.
.TP
.B set website \fIURL\fR
Set your profile website.
.SS Places & Trends
.TP
.B trends \fR[\fIWOEID\fR]
Show the top 50 trending topics.
.TP
.B trend_locations
Show locations with trending topic information.
Aliases:
.BR locations ", " trendlocations .
.TP
.B my_location
Retrieve place information based on your IP address.
Aliases:
.BR ip_location ", " mylocation .
.TP
.B nearby_places \fR[\fIADDRESS\fR]
Retrieve nearby places.
Aliases:
.BR nearbyplaces ", " nearby .
.TP
.B place \fIPLACE_ID\fR
Retrieve detailed information about a place.
.TP
.B places \fINAME\fR
Retrieve places with similar names near an address.
.SS Miscellaneous
.TP
.B ruler
Print a 280\-character ruler.
.TP
.B matrix
You have to see it for yourself.
.TP
.B version
Print version.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
Many commands accept the following options:
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-csv
Output in CSV format.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-decode\-uris
Decode t.co shortened URLs.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-id
Refer to users by numeric ID instead of screen name.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Output in long (detailed) format.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-number " " \fIN\fR
Limit the number of results returned.
Default: 20.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-relative\-dates
Show dates relative to now (e.g., "3 hours ago").
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Reverse the order of results.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-since\-id " " \fIID\fR
Return only results with an ID greater than the given value.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-max\-id " " \fIID\fR
Return only results with an ID less than or equal to the given value.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B X_STREAM_MAX_EVENTS
Maximum number of events to emit in streaming commands.
Also recognized as
.BR T_STREAM_MAX_EVENTS .
Useful for testing and automation.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrc
Default profile and credentials file (YAML, mode 0600).
Falls back to reading
.I ~/.trc
if not found.
.SH EXAMPLES
Authorize a new account:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x authorize
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show your timeline:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x timeline
.fi
.RE
.PP
Post a Tweet:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x update "Hello, world!"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show who you follow in long format:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x followings \-\-long
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for recent Tweets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x search all "rust lang"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Stream your timeline:
.PP
.RS
.nf
x stream timeline
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Erik Berlin
.SH LICENSE
MIT
.SH SEE ALSO
.UR https://github.com/sferik/x\-cli
GitHub repository
.UE
